#summary What about Dialogs ?

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Introduction =

Before talking about dialogs in Zildo, we'll start by a brief topo on UI texts. Then, we'll approach the ways dialogs are stored, displayed and articulated inside the game.

= UI Text =

Dialog are a subset of all User Interface text existing in the project. Let's present all the UI text in Zildo.

They are divided into 3 sections : menu, game, and credits. Their meaning is pretty clear, but in details :
 * [http://code.google.com/p/zildo/source/browse/trunk/zildo/src/zildo/resource/bundle/menu.properties menu] : all text labels found on the menu side : main menu, in-game menu, all messages about internet connection or whatever
 * [http://code.google.com/p/zildo/source/browse/trunk/zildo/src/zildo/resource/bundle/game.properties game] : all messages displayed inside the game, including dialogs, multiplayer messages, items name and automatic text for the first time Zildo picks an item
 * [http://code.google.com/p/zildo/source/browse/trunk/zildo/src/zildo/resource/bundle/credits.properties credits] : text displayed in the credits. There's only one multi-line value

== i18n ==

All UI texts are internationalized with keys. For now (09/2012), we have 2 languages : french and english (default one).

= Dialogs, at last =

== Characters ==

Each characters in the game (called Perso in the code) have a set of parametered sentences, 10 maximum, and a script expression.

A sentence is represented by a key whose value is in properties file. (game*.properties)

=== Script expression ===
The script expression indicates what the character will say, according to the adventure state, or other elements, like money in the Zildo's pocket ...

Example of script expressions:
<pre>
chateau_ask:7,enlevement:4,roxy:8,0
</pre>

It means that this character will say the 7th sentence if the quest "chateau_ask" is one. Otherwise, the 4th if quest "enlevement" is done. Or 8th if "roxy" is done, or 0 in any other case.

There's some extra possibilities to trigger some sentences, depending on various parameters:
 * *money* : followed by a money amount. Triggered if hero has more.
 * *moon* : same with moonstone pieces carried by hero
 * *item* : followed by an item name, in hero's possession to trigger
 * *init* : triggered first time hero meet character since he entered the room

== Sentence ==

Sentences are the values stored in properties file. There is some predefined special signs to customize dialog process.

=== # (sharp) ===

At the end of a sentence, indicate the next sentence to be pronounced by the character.

Example : "Hi Zildo !#2" move the cursor to the sentence number 2 (0 is the first one).

=== @ (at) ===

Still at the end of a sentence, it indicates that the next sentence is pronounced automatically. It avoids player to talk again to the same character.

=== Game Parameters ===

When using {0} in a sentence, you ask for the player name. It's the only game-related parameter for now.

=== Platform-dependent parameter ===

To introduce specific things between platforms, there is 3 different keywords to reference keypads :
 * %key.action% : the action key
 * %key.inventory% : key to get into player's inventory
 * %key.weapon% : key to hit with the current weapon/item

Then, the properties file references translation for each of this key, prefixed by the platform identifier.

Example : "Android.key.action=le cadran supérieur droit de l'écran" for french