#summary Script language in Zildo

= Description =

The scripting module in Zildo is divided into two essentials sections :
 * scenes
 * quests

All is described in a single XML file, containing an ADVENTURE root.

But let's see how works the 2 sections.

== Scenes ==

A scene is a cinematic sequence, where player can't act. He just has to show events happening like in a movie.

Basically, it's a list of mini-actions which are launched sequentially. Some can be launched simultaneously. (see the 'Commands' section)

== Quests ==

A quest is an objective for the player. It has 3 parts:
 * *trigger* : what the player has to do in order to accomplish the quest
 * *action* : direct actions from the accomplishment
 * *history* : consequences in the history (map replacements ...)

_Note_ : when loading a saved game, every accomplished quest launches the execution of each 'history' part, but not 'action' part.

= Commands =

Every action is a parametered command. Here is an exhaustive list of all existing actions :

|| *Command* || *Type* || *Who* || *What* || *Unblock* || *Meaning* ||
|| pos || position || V || V || - || Set character or camera's location ||
|| moveTo || position || V || V || V || Move character or camera's location, progressively ||
|| speak || text || V || V || V || Launch a dialog ||
|| script || int || V || - || - || Set character's script ||
|| angle || int || V || - || - || Set character's angle ||
|| wait || int || - || - || V || Wait for a given number of frame ||
|| sound || text || V || V || V || Play a given sound ||
|| music || text || V || V || V || Play a given music||
|| fadeIn || int || - || - || V || Start a fade in, with given effect ||
|| fadeOut || int || - || - || V || Start a fade out, with given effect ||
|| map || text || - || - || - || Load the given map ||
|| focus || text || V || - || - || Focus on given character ||
|| spawn || text || V || V || - || Spawn a new character/sprite ||
|| exec || text || - || - || - || Execute a named script ||
|| take || text || - || V || - || Zildo take an object ||
|| mapReplace || text || - || V || - || Replace map indicated by 'what' by the one named by 'name'  ||


= Details =

Add your content here.  Format your content with: